docs/cases/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Cases
permalink: /cases
description: Ergodonk Zero case variant overview
nav_order: 6
has_children: true
image: /images/build_guide_pico/acrylic_case_hero_shot.jpeg
published: false
---

# ErgoDonk Zero Cases

<a href="/images/build_guide_pico/acrylic_case_hero_shot.jpeg"><img src="/images/build_guide_pico/acrylic_case_hero_shot.jpeg" alt="Acrylic sofle pico case" width="32%"></a> <a href="/images/build_guide_pico/fdm_case_hero_shot.jpeg"><img src="/images/build_guide_pico/fdm_case_hero_shot.jpeg" alt="Acrylic sofle pico case" width="32%"></a>

 - Key plates are strongly recommended, but not technically required. If you use 3 pin MX keys, the thumb keys tend to fall out if you don't use a key plate.
 - The key plates combined with a backplate make a nice 'sandwich' case. You can cover up the sandwich case with the 'monobody' cover.
 - @todo - rewrite all of this to adapt from Sofle
 - Spacers are intended to pass through the main pcb and screw onto the bottom plates, top plates, and OLED plates.
 - Plates can be made from acrylic, or 3d printed. 
 - Having a standoff kit is helpful when assembling the keyplates. [M2 Brass Standoff Kit](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07B9X1KY6)
 - Acrylic key plates should only be used for MX switches. (The choc switches retention nubs only allow 1.5mm or 1.6mm plates, which aren't recommended with acrylic).
 - PCB cases should be 1.6mm thick. The switches fit better in the PCBs because most switches have 'retention nubs' designed for PCBs.<br><img src="/images/build_guide_pico/sofle_pico_retention_nubs.png" alt="switch retention nubs" width="20%">

Acrylic plates are assembled using standoffs that run through the board. 3d printed FDM plates screw directly to the board, and do not use standoffs.

@todo - case assembly animation?

Commit message:

Updated acrylic case docs and images

docs/cases/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Cases
permalink: /cases
description: Ergodonk Zero case variant overview
nav_order: 6
has_children: true
image: /images/build_guide_pico/acrylic_case_hero_shot.jpeg
# published: false
---

# ErgoDonk Zero Cases

 - @todo - This has been rewritten to adapt from Sofle, but needs images updated.
  
<a href="/images/acrylic_case/acrylic_tilted_hero.jpeg"><img src="/images/acrylic_case/acrylic_tilted_hero.jpeg" alt="Acrylic ErgoDonk Zero case" width="32%"></a> <a href="/images/acrylic_case/knob_close_up.jpeg"><img src="/images/acrylic_case/knob_close_up.jpeg" alt="Acrylic ErgoDonk Zero case" width="32%"></a> 

 - Key plates are strongly recommended, but not technically required. If you use 3 pin MX keys, the thumb keys tend to fall out if you don't use a key plate.
 - Plates can be made from acrylic, or 3d printed.
 - The 3d printed or acrylic key plates combined with a backplate make a nice 'sandwich' case. 
 - You can cover up the sandwich case with the 3d printed 'monobody' cover.
 - Spacers are intended to pass through the main pcb and screw onto the bottom plates, top plates, and MCU & Solenoid plates. 
 - Having a standoff kit is helpful when assembling the keyplates. [M2 Brass Standoff Kit](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07B9X1KY6)
 - Acrylic key plates should only be used for MX switches. (The choc switches retention nubs only allow 1.5mm or 1.6mm plates, which aren't recommended with acrylic).
