docs/VIA.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: VIA
description: Instructions for modifying the ErgoDonk Zero key map using the online VIA configurator
# permalink: /pcb-ordering
# parent: Flashing
nav_order: 5
image: /images/VIA/via_3.png
---

# VIA
Until the ErgoDonk Zero layout is merged into the official VIA repo, you'll need to load the VIA definition manually. ()
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Editing with VIA will only work after you've flashed the ErgoDonk Zero at least once.

1. Visit https://usevia.app/
1. Open the "Settings" tab by clicking on the gear icon at the top of the page. 
1. Enable "Show Design tab". <br>
![VIA show design tab switch](images/VIA/via_1.png)
1. Now you should see a paintbrush icon at the top of the screen. Click on that to open the "Design tab".
1. Download the ErgoDonk Zero via config file: [ergodonk_zero.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JellyTitan/ErgoDonk-Zero/main/Firmware/via/ergodonk_zero.json). (Right click and 'Save As' to download the .json file).<br>
Once you have the file locally, Click "Load" to upload `ergodonk_zero.json`.<br> (The ErgoDonk Zero PR for VIA can't be submitted until the QMK PR is submitted and approved. That PR is waiting and ready to go: [VIA PR for ErgoDonk Zero](https://github.com/JellyTitan/via-keyboards/tree/ergodonk_zero)).<br>
![VIA uploading config](images/VIA/via_2.png)
1. After the definition is loaded, you may be asked to authorize a connection to your device. If the auth request doesn't pop-up automagically, click on the 'configure' icon at the top of the page, then click on 'Authorize Device +'<br> ![VIA device authorization](images/VIA/via_3.png)
1. Clicking on the "Configure" tab will let you modify your layout.<br>
![VIA Configure tab](images/VIA/via_4.png)

Commit message:

Split flashing into subsections Added TOC shortcodes

docs/VIA.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: VIA
description: Instructions for modifying the ErgoDonk Zero key map using the online VIA configurator
# permalink: /pcb-ordering
# parent: Flashing
nav_order: 5
image: /images/VIA/via_3.png
---

# VIA
Until the ErgoDonk Zero layout is merged into the official VIA repo, you'll need to load the VIA definition manually. 

{: .warning}
> Editing with VIA will only work after you've flashed the ErgoDonk Zero at least once. See [flashing](flashing.md) for first flash instructions.

1. Visit https://usevia.app/
1. Open the "Settings" tab by clicking on the gear icon at the top of the page. 
1. Enable "Show Design tab". <br>
![VIA show design tab switch](images/VIA/via_1.png)
1. Now you should see a paintbrush icon at the top of the screen. Click on that to open the "Design tab".
1. Download the ErgoDonk Zero via config file: [ergodonk_zero.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JellyTitan/ErgoDonk-Zero/main/Firmware/via/ergodonk_zero.json). (Right click and 'Save As' to download the .json file).<br>
Once you have the file locally, Click "Load" to upload `ergodonk_zero.json`.<br> (The ErgoDonk Zero PR for VIA can't be submitted until the QMK PR is submitted and approved. That PR is waiting and ready to go: [VIA PR for ErgoDonk Zero](https://github.com/JellyTitan/via-keyboards/tree/ergodonk_zero)).<br>
![VIA uploading config](images/VIA/via_2.png)
1. After the definition is loaded, you may be asked to authorize a connection to your device. If the auth request doesn't pop-up automagically, click on the 'configure' icon at the top of the page, then click on 'Authorize Device +'<br> ![VIA device authorization](images/VIA/via_3.png)
1. Clicking on the "Configure" tab will let you modify your layout.<br>
![VIA Configure tab](images/VIA/via_4.png)
